# The Shadow Drive Enhanced RPC Network Architecture

Data and data storage provide the ultimate foundation for many new and exciting directions for GenesysGo and our network. Our RPC network will undergo an extreme revamp with the creation of a new kind of node by which we serve Solana data.

As written earlier, Shadow Drive is capable of ingesting the most recent block, storing it, replicating it, and then serving RPC requests against it faster than the Solana validators can serve the next block. This new capacity allows us to maximize our relationship with Solana Labs by being able to answer RPC requests using machines which are not affected by turbulence of the Solana validator network. The current design of the RPC server is also deeply tied to the state of congestion on Solana at any given moment. What we have done with Shadow Nodes has allowed us to keep them deeply tied to Solana as an RPC node, however we’ve attached the tie in a different way and place to allow Shadow Nodes to truly maximize stability and performance.

Additionally, the vast data set we are ingesting will allow us to serve network snapshots faster and more accurately than is currently possible… which will allow new validators to come online faster after they perform software rollups, restart their machines after maintenance, or recover after a hardware failure. This will also have the added benefit of saving existing validators from needing to use their own resources to serve snapshots to other validators. Anything that maximizes a validator’s ability to focus on building blocks and building blocks alone is a huge win for the network.
